## The Problem

For my entire life, I've dealt with a specific problem in varying
ways. None of them truly solved the problem, though. Instead, they
brought with them their own tools, with their own overhead, and their
own demands as I moved forward.

That problem is information overload. Specifically, the duplication of
information that should always be the same. This is not a small
problem to solve.

## The Explanation

We have a problem in our information age: We have too much of it,
duplicated across too many formats. We don’t know who needs it, or how
to share it with them. We have means and methods, but technology gets
in our way more than it makes it easy.

Consider your contact information. You probably have multiple email
addresses, multiple phone numbers, participate in multiple social
networks, and there’s your street address too (for some people, even
this can be multiple, with work, home, and “summer home”). There are
formats meant to allow easy exchange of that data, but even then you
have to exchange data to exchange that data. How then do you exchange
it? Do you use NFC? EMail? VCF files? Pieces of paper? Some sort of
wireless information exchange like [Bump][BUMP] used to provide, or
even PalmOS with the IR port?

We have so many ways to exchange information that we first have to
establish what we’re sharing (phone number? email?), and then how
we’re going to exchange it, before we can actually get at what we care
about: That piece of data that lets us connect, and stay connected.

Then comes the life changes: we move, we change jobs, we change phone
numbers, etc. How do we update everybody we ever gave that information
to? How do we ensure that, if we’ve changed who we want to see that
information, those people we no longer wish to see it don’t get it?

This problem extends far beyond contact information.

It includes procedures at work (have you ever followed the wrong
procedure because nobody updated the manual to show the correct
procedure?). It includes what we create (have you ever created a
document, shared it with people, and then updated it, having others be
out of sync with current?). It includes information we control, and
information we have that is controlled by others.

It also is reflected in the way we find the data we care about.

For work procedures, there should be a single authoritative place to
go to get them. They should always be current and correct. There
should be a history showing how they’ve changed. You should be able to
download a complete copy, and have everything in order, so that you
can always ensure you’re doing what you need to be doing.

All of these are just some of the data that can be gathered up by
people over time. Writers can save single sentences that inspire
them. People could save photos, or the text of web pages, or mp3
files, or videos. All of these provide data that a person cares
about. All of this data needs to be understood in such a way as to
help the people using that data answer one simple question: What
information do I have that helps me to deal with the problems I have
right now?

This need comes about at both an individual and a group level. When
dealing with the group level, this is, effectively, the “hive mind” at
work. Having all of this knowledge in one place allows entire groups
of people to use the information for the betterment of their lives.

## Ways I've Tried To Solve It

We have a number of systems in place that provide some aspect of this,
though none of them fit the entire bill. And I’m not convinced that
any of them address the worst of the problem.

### Wikis

Wikis allow the group to record the data. Where they fail, though, is
quite notable.

#### Organization

I have yet to see a wiki really handle this well. A straight up
hierarchy doesn't work. Too often, a given document belongs in two
places (or more). Anything that enforces a hierarchy must require a
choice of where to place something. On the flip side, when discussing
a wiki, very few of them impose any sort of hierarchy. In fact, some
of them don't even have a hierarchy at all, placing every item in the
same "folder". This makes for a mess when it comes time to search for
something. Tags can help in this regard, but they're still far from
ideal. How do we make sure that a given article is sufficiently
tagged? How do we make sure that the searcher knows which tag will
provide the desired results?

#### Authoritativeness

Sometimes, you need documentation that you know the source. You need
to know it came from the right person or team. Documentation that is
crowd-sourced simply doesn't always cut it. On the other hand,
sometimes you need to have areas where the crowd can update
things. Sometimes, the very information that needs to be crowd sourced
is the same information that needs to be authoritative. This is a
balancing act that is very difficult to get right, and I'm not
convinced that the open model of the wiki is the right
solution. Simply locking a contentious page doesn't actually solve the
problem of determining accuracy, and the lack of accuracy in those
cases undermines authoritativeness.

#### Access Control

When dealing with something open to the public, you're going to get
spammers and defacers who don't care about what you have to
offer. They're just going to come in and update every page they can
with their garbage, and you have to clean up the mess. Some wiki
systems simply go with "allow the user to revert to a previous version
of the page", which is a time consuming act that, ideally, should be
prevented as opposed to responded to.

#### Cross-Referencing

This seems like I'm talking about the primary strength of wiki: It
cross-references so easily it's amazing. I can reference something
anywhere (within the wiki, outside the wiki) without much effort at
all. And yet, it's still a major weakness. Cross-references are
entirely manual across all of these systems. If I'm reading a wiki,
and decide to make a new page for a given phrase, I can find myself
surprised that the page already exists. I have no way of knowing it in
advance unless someone else does the work of making the link.

#### Supported Formats

They support one specific type of media: Specialized markup text using
the markup style of their choice. Why can I not upload a PDF, or DOC,
or ODT, orany other format. And I don't mean as an attachment: I mean
as a first class piece of data to be reviewed, searched, and edited.

### Content Management Systems

Another entry in this field is the idea of a Content Management
System. This manages to address most of the wiki issues, but still
leaves some major holes untouched. In particular, organization,
cross-referencing, and supported formats are all weaknesses of the
typical CMS.

Now, a CMS can have the advantage in the presentation (another failing
point of wikis, since they are limited to one output format only
normally), but this is not common either. Quite frequently, the
typical CMS will only output HTML. Getting any other format relies on
using print drivers, or using copy/paste and manual cleanup.

### Search Systems

Search systems excel at helping us find information. All of the ones
below do an amazingly difficult job, and do it in a way that just
astounds. Where all of them fail, though, is in helping us find
answers to questions we don't know we have.

We all have questions like that. One of the skills we learn is how to
use search engines to help us find answers to our questions. Along
with that skill is learning to understand our questions enough to be
able to ask them in a way that the search engine can answer them.

For example, for me, a major question right now is "How do I get
started in the field of Artificial Intelligence"? I simply have no
answer. And my first answers from Google look mildly useful. Despite
that, it is where I have to start, since I have no other starting
point. And, with everything online, there's not even an easy way for
me to browse to find my starting point.

Before telling me I just don't know how to search, consider some
alternate examples, like these:

* I'm in the market for a new vehicle. What should I be looking for?
  What should I be watching out for?
  
* I'm in the market for a new computer. I want to assemble my
  own. What do I need to know to be successful at this?

* I'm in the market for a new TV and sound system. What are the
  current standards? What will I need to get to be able to
  successfully play my existing media? What will I need to get to be
  future proofed for a good five years or so?

None of these are easy questions to answer. Go to 5 different market
places, and you will get at least 5 different answers. Ask Google, or
Bing, or Siri, and you're going to get thousands of possible
answers. How do you evaluate the worth of any of those answers? How do
you manage to browse through these possible answers to find the answer
that is right *for you*?

#### Bing

#### Google DeepMind

[Google DeepMind][DEEPMIND]

#### Google Knowledge Graph

[Google’s Knowledge Graph][KNOWLEDGEGRAPH] is amazing, since it works
on the accuracy problem in ways that nothing else comes close
to. However, Google does not have access to internal data without the
[Google Search Appliance][SEARCHAPPLIANCE]. With that in place,
though, it might be a suitable use in a company.

#### Google Knowledge Vault

[Google Knowledge Vault][KNOWLEDGEVAULT]

#### Siri

### Document Repository Systems

#### DocuShare by Xerox

[DocuShare][DOCUSHARE]

#### SharePoint

### Operating Systems

Some people might claim that an Operating System, with its files and
folders, meets these needs. My counter example for this is my own
resume. When I began my most recent job search, I found several
different versions of my resume, and each of them were slightly
different. I needed to take the time to learn new tools, and prepare
new versions, to ensure that my resume always gave the same message to
prospective employers. If that document, with all of its importance to
my life, can so easily become out of sync, how much other data do I
have that is in major disagreement with itself?

### WinFS

[WinFS][WINFS]

## The Solution?

I used to think that all I needed to do was provide a superb document
management system. At this point in time (Dec 2015), there are more
systems of this type than can even be easily evaluated. CMSes of all
shapes and sizes, wikis that contain gigabytes of data, and then
actual document management and sharing systems on top of those.

We have more ways to manage to manage the information than any of us
can manage. What we don't have is ways to actually verify that
information. We don't have ways to let our computers do the work for
us of tracking the information we care about, and seeing when it gets
updated in an external source.

It might be time for the Data Management System. The idea behind this
is that we have a tool that has some form of “understanding” of the
information it contains. It actively looks for conflicts amongst that
information, and then presents it to the people that can do something
to resolve those conflicts. It records history of those resolutions,
so that it also tracks the evolution of the knowledge it
contains. Finally, it also has an additional component (or set of
components) designed to look outside of itself for updates, conflicts,
and additional knowledge. This could include seeking information on
the local network, or going out to the internet for updates, or both.

[BUMP]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bump_%28application%29
[DEEPMIND]: http://deepmind.com/
[DOCUSHARE]: http://docushare.xerox.com/
[KNOWLEDGEGRAPH]: http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knowledge_Graph
[KNOWLEDGEVAULT]: http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knowledge_Vault
[SEARCHAPPLIANCE]: https://www.google.com/work/search/products/gsa.html
[WINFS]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WinFS
